Atul is IBM Sr Certified Enterprise Executive Architect with IBM Global Business Service (GBS), India. He is having over 24 years experience in Architecting, designing and deploying Enterprise Business solutions. Over the last 10 years, he has specialized in the developing Enterprise Architecture (EA) (including Management Model aka Governance Model) and leading the implementation of the same in multi-vendor complex SI (Systems Integration) engagements. He has consulted IBM customers for establishing the design authority with geographically distributed solution development and deployment methodologies and techniques. He worked with the Deal Hub team who was responsible for RFP/RFI responses and third party vendor and their production selection aka procurement process. He was the IBM IT Architect (ITA) Profession Lead for Asia-South and is an ITA Certification Board member of The Open Group.Specialization and focus area:Expert in IBM structured methodologies to develop and govern Enterprise Architecture; strong exposure to similar leading industry EA methodologies and framework;Helping cross-industry customer in establishing the EA organization design and  underneath architecture based delivery methodology;Setting Design Authority and Governance;Transforming organization with new business model and technology; Cloud, Analytics (including Watson Analytics, Mobile, Social and Cognitive computing (Watson)Strong experience of RFI/RFP response (including PQQ) and procurement process;Chemical & Petroleum, Energy and Utility, Retail and Government Industry Knowledge.In last 5 yearsCurrently as Account Lead Architect of Oil and Chemical account, he is providing thought leadership for establishing and delivering Architecture service through off-shore delivery; Client partnering to mature Client EA practice; Demonstrate thought leadership through building Client specific POVs / Solutions (eg. trends & best practices on Collaboration/Social Business; driving innovation through improvement and cost performance index program; supporting client initiative to make IT more competitive, credible and affordable. It is a wide-ranging programme that addresses all aspects of IT;Was Enterprise Solution Architect with client EA and Strategy group of E&U Client; this group optimizes client IS investment decision making by enabling the IS function to proactively identify oppt and options. He had been engaged by the Client CTO directly, to develop Client's EA Process Framework leveraging his experience and knowledge from previous engagements and of the client business. He has been instrumented in identify the pain point after conducting EA Assessment(including maturity) and as key senior team member, he contributed to the development of the EA Framework, processes and Method, reference architectures, architecture governance and  ECM Strategic Alignment in line with organization bus and tech strategy.With the same client, he provided technical leadership support, as Lead Portfolio Solution Architect for the Asset Management application portfolio and as Lead IBM Architect at  Distribution portfolio out of five departments within the account; others Transmission, Financial and Shared Services. Asset Mgmt cut across five departments and consists of seven different areas eg Strategic Asset Mgmt, ECM, Remote Access Asset Manager, etc. He led and chair the design authority to ensure the right solutions are implemented in the multi-vendor environment with the 8 IBM architects(including IBM executive cert architect) and other vendors’ architects.He designed and outlined the architecture of an extranet solution over internet using Microsoft web-based 3-tier solution model. He also designed security framework based on authorization and authentication including roles and responsibilities. Prepared the detailed project plan consist of design, development and implementation. He developed alternate architecture, design and implementation plans with cost-benefit analysis and helped customer to select from them. Selected and implemented Microsoft development standards.He evaluated, selected and developed web technology, framework/architecture, security framework and policies for B2C Portal. He also negotiated with hardware vendors (IBM, HP, Acer, COMPAQ etc.) software vendors (Microsoft, Sun etc.) and ISPs for evaluating option between (1) putting up dedicated servers with development platform, (2) outsourcing hosting with in-house development center and (3) completely outsourced solution.Published a research paper on “Usage of Local Language (Indian) in Computing”Led 3-5 member team for designing, developing and implementing a  public portal for Finance, Ag-riculture, Rural Development department and Economics, Passport and statistics Directorate of Economics and Statstics Directorate of Uttar Pradesh Govenment, India . HTML, JavaScript, ASP (VBScript with COM component) and MS SQL Server 6.5/7.0/Oracle were used as development tools. This  portal  was hosted on Window NT Server 4.0 using IIS 4.Developed and re-engineered more than 12 applications (Census, Teasury Computerisation, Sankhiyaki Patrika, Land Records Information System, Post Election Analysis System, Postal Life Insurance Information System, Rajiv Gandhi Drinking Water Mission Information System, Payroll, Inventory Management System, Motor Vechicle Registration System, Troops Movement Informa-tion System) in Visual Basic 5.0, Crystal Report, Oracle  6.0/7.0,  Pro*C, Lotus  Approach,  COBOL and Foxplus in xenix, Unix, CTIX and Windows environment for batch, on-line and client server so-lution. Task includes system study, designing and leading a team for coding, testing, implementa-tion and maintenance.Carried out 6 highly acclaimed feasibility studies of Computerization and Wide Area Networking among offices of Uttar Pradesh State Government. Analysis of infrastructure, hardware, software and manpower  resources requirement were done in Finance, Horticulture, Sericulture, Economic and Statistical, Pension, planning department of Uttar Pradesh Government. Recommendations were laid out. Requirements of training programs were identified.Imparted technical lectures and conducted over 110 training programs of Computer Awareness, Skill Upgradation, New Technology Infusion.Independently and as Key Member of Team, developed and re-engineered  3 application software (Leasing Information System, Plot Allotment Syste, Arm & Ammunition Information System) in Unify and COBOL in CTIX and MSDOS for batch and on-line applications. Tasks included system study, designing, coding, testing, implementation and maintenance.Key member of 3 persons team which set up of 89 Academy of Computer Leaning (ACL), fran-chise centers of UPTRON India Limited, nationwide.Co-designed professional computer courses, course-material and evaluation system for ACL cen-ters, nationwide. Designed and developed COBOL course and over 30 sections in various other courses.Streamlined evaluation and certification procedure for various professional courses.Conducted 9 faculty technical upgradation, counselor and center manager skill updation programs that increased revenue significantly.Was the key member of the team involved in tracing loopholes in software before release that re-duced 10% re-engineering cost.